[Music]
hi let's consider bathroom tissue if you
will come on it'll be fun there's all
kinds embossed reply six ply scented you
name it
but whatever it is to the touch or sniff
it looks the same to the eye white
so how come toilet paper has lost its
color so dramatically has it gone pale
due to the disturbing things it has
silently witnessed over the years well
let me roll out some explanation the
first colored TP appeared in the 1950s
when decorating your bathroom in a
single style was a thing if you imagine
a pastel blue toilet sink and bathtub
you're guessing right only there were
innumerable other options from pink to
yellow and even black black floor tiles
and walls were of course to match and so
were the typical bathroom utensils and
having a white toilet paper roll hanging
there was a real monstrosity
so toilet paper producers got the idea
and caught up dyeing their products in
all possible colors so that people could
complete the image of their bathrooms it
was a real explosion of colorful TP
ideas and it didn't stop at simply
painting it this way or that by the end
of the decade manufacturers invented
see-through packages which wasn't a bad
idea you know how what you see in the ad
or on the package often is very
different from the actual contents right
the colors were also added in different
ways they could be solid or come in
various patterns to fit even the
savviest customers tastes the popularity
of colored toilet paper reached its peak
by the 1970s but sometime around the
1980s personal hygiene shelves became
gradually whiter and by 2004 all colors
disappeared completely and there were
several reasons for that first several
studies show that the dye used in
colored toilet paper can be potentially
dangerous and here's the rub
Dyess porn as strictly regulated 50 to
70 years ago so manufacturers could
basically add whatever coloring they
wanted also no medical implications were
thought of at the time and dying was
considered safe by default but as time
went more and more evidence of different
threats to public health appeared and
toilet paper producers decided it was
better to be safe than sorry and flushed
the colors second reason for the total
whitewashing was that demand was falling
while the costs of production remain the
same people stopped going crazy about
pink and violet bathrooms opting for
more practical and a clean white look so
naturally there was no more need to buy
colorful toilet paper either for
manufacturers on the other hand it meant
they could cut costs because bleaching
the paper is easier and cheaper than
buying dyes and adding them to the
product and thirdly environmental
research also showed that dyed toilet
paper isn't a good thing initially paper
was made from whole wood pulp but if you
can imagine the scale at which it is
produced you won't be surprised that
conservationists protested this practice
soon manufacturers switched to making TP
from recycled paper it is pressed into a
pulp and then undergo some processes to
end up in your bathroom just hanging
there waiting for an opportunity to be a
service although it's better for the
environment the problem with this
recyclable method is that the resulting
product received this unpleasant gray or
brownish tint when manufacturers tried
to give it to customers without any
color adjustments their sales plopped no
one wanted to buy toilet paper that look
as if it had been used before which to a
certain extent it had so the choice was
to either bleach it like there's no
tomorrow or diet in a different hue
again bleaching was cheaper but the
color bathroom craze had yet to subside
so manufacturers did both
in the end though it turned out that
dyed paper is slower to decompose in
nature and more difficult to dissolve in
water basically every time you flush
down some amount of dyed TP you face the
risk of clogging the plumbing and all
that follows you can now find colored or
patterned toilet paper only in limited
editions but if you're not in the u.s.
you're now probably thinking I'm talking
nonsense for example if you come to
France you'll say the personal hygiene
shelves stacked mostly with pink toilet
paper not white for your delicate
derriere you can find an occasional
white pack of course but it looks like
it's lost all alone in the pink ocean if
you're waiting for an explanation I'm
sorry I don't have one it seems to be
some sort of traditional thing though
why a country would choose its national
toilet paper color is beyond me perhaps
it's off or posterior
I mean posterity do you have any idea
don't be shy and share in the comments
other countries have also not wiped out
coloured TP altogether in Germany you
would find different patterns and many
Eastern European nations also experiment
with colors there's a simple reason
behind that dyes have become much safer
for both public health and the
environment you know those things they
add a food to make it tastier and
conserve longer well food colorants are
also there and they're considered safe
for your health
paper dye manufacturers took the idea
from there and produce brand new types
of dye
they both nicely dissolve in water and
won't even produce much skin irritation
or any harm if even no garlic
coming soon to social media the toilet
paper eating challenge turning the other
cheek now there are countries and
traditions though that don't want to
have anything to do with toilet paper at
all considering it dirty well with
apologies to Stephen Covey let's begin
with the end in mind
shall we in India for example you
probably won't
find TP in any stores because it's not
in their tradition instead of wiping
yourself you're expected to eat as a
bucket and a mug that are put there
inside the bathroom for your comfort
warning this is not a coffee mug in
bitter hotels and restaurants as well as
some homes you'll find a hose for
washing up or a tap controlled spray
that ejects water under pressure right
into the heart of your bottom it's best
practice to always check the amount of
pressure first or you could be the next
jet pack guy it's for that same reason
you shouldn't ever use your left hand
for any personal interaction while in
India
remember the bucket in the mug well with
your right hand you hold the mug with
water while your left hand does the deed
of tidying up your tuchus naturally it
is considered unclean after that so
don't ever shake hands or pass the salt
to anyone with your left right by the
way you ever wondered what people did to
clean themselves when toilet paper
wasn't invented yet well water is the
first thing that comes to mind of course
but that was a net all kinds of things
went into use but the most interesting
and by far the craziest by today's
standards were the ancient Greeks who
use clay and stones for hygienic
purposes so now you know where the term
roughing it originally came from ancient
Romans went a bit further they invented
communal bathrooms with long marble
benches that had holes in them and
beside those benches were sticks with
sponges attached to them sitting in a
bucket when Romans finished their
business they took the stick and washed
themselves returning it to the water
bucket afterwards and yes the sponges
were reusable if you're wondering the
Latin word for Cher is Cher
colonial Americans also had some rather
resourceful ways when it came to
personal hygiene
corn was everywhere at the time
so they figured they could put it to
good use once the edible part was gone
but if you think it was those big leaves
they used to wipe themselves well they
had another idea altogether farmers took
corn cobs into the bathroom with them I
guess they felt those things were better
suited for the business and that's the
end of talking about the end the end
okay I think I really need some brain
washing now if you learned something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right
don't use your left hand and stay on the
bright side of life